1.TRANSACTION WORKING PROCEDURE FOR FOB ROTTERDAM PORT. 
1. Buyer issues ICPO, and company registration certificate and data page of buyer’s Passport or any I.D. 
2. Seller issues Commercial Invoice (CI) & Warning Letter, Buyer signs and returns back to seller with his 
official TSA, for Seller verification and approval, 
3. Seller lease and pays the buyer’s tank for two (2) days and Buyer pay his Tank Farm Company for 
three (3) days in-order to obtain a five (5) days TSR for the injection to commence. 
4. Seller issue's Injection Schedule (IJ) and Notice of Readiness (NOR) to buyer’s tank farm Company to 
start up the injection process. 
5. Buyer tank farm company issues Authorization to Inject (ATI) to seller upon authorizing and approving 
seller to start up injection in buyers tank located in their terminal. 
6. Seller start up the injection of the fuel into buyers’ tanks and issue the necessary PPOP documents to 
buyer after concluding the full injection which are; 
 
 Full Injection Report 
 Registration Certificate 
 Statement of Product Availability 
 Certificate of Origin 
 Product Passport (Lab Analysis) 
 Dip Test Authorization 
 Certificate of Products Conformity from The Ministry 
 
7. Buyer contact the SGS team to conducts Dip test on the products already injected in buyers leased 
tanks. 
8. SGS conduct full scale inspection on the fuel and furnished the buyer the test report not less than 24 to 
48 hours old, and buyer immediately makes payment for the total value of the product after receiving the 
positive test report from SGS through the means of MT103-TT Wire Transfer not less than 48 to 72 
working hours’ time frame. 
9. Seller receive the payment for the total cost of products value from the buyer, and immediately sellerchange the title ownership of the fuel from seller’s company name to buyer's company name and issue 
the buyer the necessary documents; 
 
 Title Certificate Of Ownership Of Products ( At Buyer's Company Name) 
 Authorization to Sell and Collect (Atsc) (at Buyer's Company Name) 
 Commitment to Supply and Distribute (at Buyer's Company Name) 
 
10. Buyer obtain full ownership of the products and Buyer pays buyer side commission and 
intermediaries, Seller also pays all seller side commissions and intermediaries for this first shipment 
11. Contract’s shipment continues as per terms and conditions of the sales and purchase agreement contract between buyer and seller.



2.TRANSACTION WORKING PROCEDURE FOR FOB ROTTERDAM PORT. 
1.Buyer issues ICPO along with the following documents: buyer’s TSA, Company Certificate of 
Registration or Company Profile, and buyer’s in accordance with seller’s delivery transaction terms. 
2.Seller issues Commercial Invoice and Tank to Tank Injection Agreement to be countersigned by the 
buyer and its logistics company. 
3.Upon receipt of countersigned Commercial Invoice and Tank to Tank Injection Agreement, seller 
provides the following documents for buyer to verify the product in seller’s tank 
A. Fresh SGS Report; 
B. Tank Storage Receipt; 
C. Authorization to Verify; 
D. Dip Test Authorization Letter; 
E. Authorization to Sell & Collect; 
F. NCNDA/IMFPA; 
G. Certificate of Conformity; 
H. Statement of Product Availability. 
4. (NCNDA/IMFPA) will be signed, buyer within 24 hours after successful dip test in seller tanks 
provide tank storage receipt (TSR) seller proceed for Tank to Tank injection and provide buyer with 
the injection report of the product into buyer tanks. 
5. Buyer make payment for total cost of product injected into buyer tanks via MT103, Seller transfer 
title ownership to buyer with all exportation documents required of buyer for the transaction. 
6. Upon conclusion of first lift transaction seller pays all intermediaries involved in the Transaction and 
proceeds with the signing of contract with Buyer.
